today's chef county is gonna teach us
how to make shrimp and vegetable tempura
so we were gonna focus first I'm making
the batter and then we're gonna focus on
frying all the fun stuff okay what's the
first step so we have wet ingredients
dry ingredients I'll mix the drop dry
you do the wet you've got an egg you've
got ice-cold water I have flour and
baking soda so go ahead and get with the
whip break up the yolk now there's a lot
of schools of thought on the batter some
people like to use seltzer water because
of the air and it helps make it lighter
and that can work at the end of the day
of what I have found is this works I
like this recipe Cheryl because you can
make it and you can let it sit and not
have to worry about the there's seltzer
water get it slap that's perfect so now
we have our wet ingredients here and our
dry and you're gonna you're gonna mix
while I pour the flour into the egg
batter Chuck you want to go dry in too
wet for this procedure okay I'm gonna
gradually put the flour into the egg
water mixture and Cheryl's gonna mix it
just so it's lightly incorporated it's
okay if it has a little bit of lump so
you don't want to over mix it you over
mix it that you're gonna have a duck
really tough and gummy batter that's
perfect perfect so what's gonna happen
now is we're gonna take our batter and
you you know it's it's it's it's a
little it may look like a slightly runny
but what's important and a good tip
Putte is that you have a light batter
because you don't want it to over coat
what you're gonna fry so what I want to
do now is we're gonna take this item the
batter we're gonna put in a refrigerator
while we prep all of our ingredients
that we're gonna fry and heat the oil
and that's important because we've just
mixed the flour and flour and water
making gluten and if we use it right now
it's gonna have a tendency to be tougher
so we want the thing to relax a little
bit and then we'll be good to go all
right so what we've done is we've made
our batter and we've let it set in the
refrigerator so that it can rest a
little bit because we mixed it hard
right
who's got a doughy right so now we're
gonna go ahead and start frying I have
very clean oil I'm using canola oil here
and we've got it to 320 degrees and
we've got some shrimp I have a jumbo
shrimp here that we've butterfly and
then on the base here because what
happens if you don't do this though if
you just throw them in they'll curl so
along the bottom of I've made the little
slits and that will help keep them
straight
okay then we've got all kinds of
vegetables here and the key is to cut
like hard vegetables like carrots or
sweet potatoes you want to cut them thin
so that they can cook in the amount of
time that it takes to fry the batter
mm-hmm the onions broccoli we've got
some eggplant and some cheese she saw
and we've got shiitake mushrooms started
what's this that is Okinawan sweet
potato so I'm gonna dip to the shrimp in
here I'm gonna just lightly let some of
the excess come off and then I'm gonna
go ahead and put in my oil
I want to wiggle it just a little bit as
it kind of goes in there and it'll start
to feather out a little bit and then
I'll just let it roll
what's all the - shrimp in there for now
so I just just coated it and just put it
right inside there don't shake it too
much because you want all the batter to
come off a couple more pieces if there's
some pieces that take longer to cook so
we should put it in first uh it's it's
more of a matter of just watching their
time so I mean if you put something in
that takes longer to cook after it's
just yeah keep an eye on the product
okay but one thing you do want to do is
you want to keep track of your oil you
know it's convenient if you have one of
those fry daddies it'll keep track of
the temperature using a public we're
doing here you want to make sure that
the oil doesn't get so hot that it's
burning a product before it has a chance
to cook and you don't want to overcrowd
the pan either I think we're kind of
good right now and the shrimp will
probably take maybe a minute to cook and
it's actually looking pretty good here
someone put that over here
I'll take this right here and then what
happened so I'm gonna use my little
basket here as you're trying what's
important you're gonna want to clean out
the oil every so often because little
pieces are gonna want they're gonna come
off and you're gonna a little and
I got some here oh not a bit so you want
to put that so we're gonna go ahead and
keep frying Cheryl's gonna keep dipping
and dropping and I'll keep watching
what's gonna happen here and then when
we come back you'll get to see all the
finished product and then we get to do
the part that I like to do it and that's
neat sounds great
we're right back wow that was really
easy so remind us what's the secret to
great template ah okay here we go ice
cold water really important make sure
you don't over mix the batter let it be
a little bit lumpy and let it rest for a
little bit so that it's not really sort
of doughy
right make sure your oil is 325 degrees
so that you're not gonna have a soggy
oily product and eat it as quickly as
possible serve them right away because
we want it to be hot and you want them
to be crisp oh so delicious I mean I was
shrimp for this recipe and more visit us
at Foodland comm hmm